README.md, before:

# Project Overview

By: Liam Eckert

This is a simple task management application built using TypeScript with an Express backend, a React frontend, and a PostgreSQL database.

## Database Setup and Configuration

1. Ensure Docker is installed.
2. Configure the following environment variables in the backend directory:
- POSTGRES_USER
- POSTGRES_PW
- POSTGRES_DB
- POSTGRES_PORT (NOTE: This is the port on which the db will be exposed)
- POSTGRES_HOST (NOTE: This is the host on which the db will be exposed. Probably localhost)
- PGADMIN_MAIL
- PGADMIN_PW
3. Run the following command to start the database:
```
docker compose up
```
4. When finished, run the following command to stop the database:
```
docker compose down
```

## Backend Setup and Configuration
1. Install dependencies:
```
npm install
```
2. Generate a private and public key pair. This will create a keys directory with the private and public keys:
```
npm run generate-keys
```
3. Configure the following environment variables in the backend directory:
- PORT
- CORS_ORIGIN (e.g. the URL of the frontend application)
4. Start the backend server (NOTE: Ensure the database is running before starting the backend server):
```
npm run dev
```

Commit message:

Migrate to Prisma ORM and update project structure
Completed routes for the backend. Still need to add zod validation in the shared file

README.md, after:

# Project Overview

By: Liam Eckert

This is a simple task management application built using TypeScript with an Express backend, a React frontend, and a PostgreSQL database.

## Database Setup and Configuration

- Navigate to the backend directory and if you haven't already installed the dependencies, run the following command:
```
npm install
```
- If you haven't already, create a .env and copy from .env.example, alter the variables to match your local database configuration.
- Generate the Prisma client:
```
npx prisma generate
```
- Migrate the database to match the prisma schema:
```
npx prisma migrate dev
```

## Backend Setup and Configuration
- Navigate to the backend directory and install the dependencies if you haven't already:
```
npm install
```
- Generate a private and public key pair. This will create a keys directory with the private and public keys:
```
npm run generate-keys
```
- If you haven't already, create a .env and copy from .env.example, alter the variables to match your local database configuration.
- Ensure you have already setup your databse following the instructions above.
- Start the backend server (NOTE: Ensure the database is running before starting the backend server):
```
npm run dev
```
